# Warlight-AI-Challenge-2
This bot was created as a semester project for Clemson University's CPSC 4820: Introduction to AI class, following the rules of the Warlight AI Challenge II. The game it plays, Warlight, is a simplified version of the popular board game Risk. The AI challenge provided accessibility for submissions to interface with the game's engine to submit its moves, so this program mainly contains the logic behind moving decisions for the bot.

This bot divides the game into three main action components: picking regions to deploy new armies to, deploying armies, and attacking with or transferring armies currently in regions. In order to make moves in these categories which lead to the most successful outcome, this bot takes the form of a utility-based agent, weighing the possibile "utilities" of different actions based on their possible results, and taking those actions with maximum possible utilities. As the goal of Warlight is to capture all enemy-owned regions, the utility function scales higher based on the number of regions owned, and the number of armies generated by regions owned.

The utility function itself uses a local search algorithm, simulated annealing, in an attempt to find that global maximum utility based on possible moves, allowing for a result somewhat close to the maximum utility while using a limited amount of time. While other algorithms, such as an expectiminimax search, were attempted, they were difficult to use to find an acceptable maximum utility move in a limited amount of time. Additional heuritics are also used to prevent moves which would cause a lower utility state than the current state, such as spreading armies too thin to defend currently held regions, or attacking with too few armies to take a region.

With that utility function, the overall behavior of the bot is as follows:
  
  Initial Region Choices: Regions with the least adjacent regions are chosen first, as they are the most defensible. Then, regions closest to the initial region are chosen.
  
  Deployment to Regions: Armies are deployed mostly to border regions or those adjacent to border regions, calculating utility of deployments based on probability of an attack on a given region succeeding.
  
  Attack/Transfer to Regions: Armies are transferred from inner regions to border regions to keep a well-defended perimeter. Attacks are decided based on the utility of the resulting state if the attack succeeds, weighted by the probability of a success for an attack.
